Hello everyone and welcome back to this
video. Uh in the previous videos we took
a look at the overview of the training
setup uh that we'll need to do and uh we
said that the most um the most part that
takes a lot of effort is pre-processing
where you have to build your messages do
the tokenization and assistant only
masking. And once you uh have all of
this what's coming next is really easy.
So um in this video we'll take a look at
uh how to set up your model, how to
start uh the actual training process and
then how to save uh your model. So uh
the first thing we will do here which is
considered part of pre-processing but we
did not include it uh in the previous
videos is padding because we have not
done padding yet and um we're including
padding in this video because it will be
uh done as we pass the samples to the
model. So it's something that is done on
the fly during the training itself. And
um yeah even though padding is
considered pre-processing because of the
timing that we will be uh performing
padding we had to uh include it in the
model setup step and I'll explain later
why does it have to be here and not in
the pre-processing step. So uh let's get
started.
So we will take a look at this notebook
which is uh available for you on the
GitHub repo. You can uh check it out. Uh
it's a really long notebook. However,
I'm not going to go through the things
above because uh it literally implements
what we discussed in the previous uh
video uh I mean the pre-processing steps
uh but they are written in terms of uh
methods. So um the first thing we will
do is load our model and tokenizer. Uh
we'll be applying Lora and Qura. We
prepared the data set and we tokenize
it. And uh just to make sure we are on
the same page, let's take a look at one
sample from the tokenized uh train data.
So this is the first sample. You can see
it's a dictionary. Uh it contains the
input ids which is the uh the sentence
or the user prompt and uh you can take a
look at this. You will see it does not
have padding tokens. So it ends up with
with this number which is uh used for
both padding and end of sequence. In
this case it's just end of sequence. So
there is no padding. When you see this
number a lot at the end uh duplicated I
mean this means that these are padding
tokens. But in this case it's just the
end of sequence. So this is not baded
yet. And then if you take a look at the
labels, you're going to see the negative
hundreds at the prompt. And uh this is
the answer part which we want the model
to learn. And then you have the
attention mask. So the attention mask is
going to be all ones again which
confirms we have not done padding yet.
So um this is one sample of the data
set. Uh you should be familiar um of
this format by now and we will take it
from here and see how we can uh start
the training process.
So the next thing we want to talk about
here is padding. So as we know padding
is considered a pre-processing step that
you have to perform before you pass uh
the sentences to the LLM just in order
to put them in a matrix. Uh and we did
not cover padding as a pre-processing
step. Uh instead we are covering it
here. And the reason uh why we do this
is uh if you do padding as a
pre-processing step um you will need to
pad your entire data set to be equal to
the length of the larger sample. So
imagine your data set is uh the length
of the samples is uh usually short or
medium but you have a single sample that
is very huge maybe 100,000 tokens or
something. This means you have to pad
all your data set to be equal to the
length of this uh single sample and u
this means the matrices that you will be
processing as an input is going to be
very large which is going to increase
your training time a lot. However, this
is not efficient because uh the model
processes your data in batches. It does
not process the data um in one go. So
all you need to do is pad uh the
sequences in the batch to be equal to
the largest sample in that batch, not in
the entire data set. So if your batch
has four sentences and the largest one
is maybe 350 tokens, then all of them
has to be 350. You don't need to pad uh
to the largest sample in the entire
data.
And that's why we are uh creating this
collater here. So uh a collater in
PyTorch is something very u well known.
It's uh it's something that will run
over the input batch before it gets to
the model in case you want to apply some
pre-processing on the batch. Okay. And
this pre-processing can be anything. In
our case, it's just padding. So what
this collateral does uh it takes in the
tokenizer and the padding the padding
token for the labels. So which is 100
meaning if we pad the labels we pad with
negative 100 to exclude them from the
loss calculation and then it takes in
the batch um it finds the largest uh
sample of the input ids masks and labels
and it pads all of them to be um equal
to the length of the sample and just
returns them and uh that's it and you
can use it very easily. So uh let's take
a look at this.
So we are creating a collateral here. Uh
we are creating a data loader out of our
uh training data with a batch size of
four and uh this is the way you can uh
yeah view the uh the first batch. So if
you run this and you look at the uh
batch of input ids. So this is the first
sample. Now you can see it's padded. So
uh before this you did not have all of
these padding tokens. It it ended here
uh which is the prompt itself and this
is the end of sequence token. But now
you have uh all of these padding tokens.
And if you look at the attention mask,
you can see previously it was all ones,
but now you have u included the padding
tokens. So uh you have zeros for the
attention mask for the padding one.
And uh just to show you quickly uh how
this thing runs. So uh if you create
your data loader and you iterate over
it, you can uh just call the next method
to give you the next batch. And you take
a look at the shape. So when you run
this the first time uh it shows you 221.
So this is the first batch and every
time you run this it's going to give you
a different number just because it pads
on the fly depending on the largest
sequence in the batch. So uh every time
you run this you will get a different
number and this is very powerful uh to
do it this way instead of having to pad
um the entire data set to the largest
sequence in the data set. This would
have made uh this matrix always 4x 512
because we are uh restricting the max
tokens to 512 which will increase the
training time unnecessarily.
So the next thing would be to set up
your model itself. So let's go back to
our model setup here. Um we actually
added the padding on the fly. Uh so it's
not mentioned here but this is what
we've done first. And then we need to
set up the model or load it in uh maybe
4 bit apply quantization or apply the uh
lora adapters. So this is what we'll be
doing next. So uh if we go to our setup
uh model and tokenization or setup model
and tokenizer
uh method you can see this is what it's
doing. And uh basically this is going to
take our configuration and read it.
Maybe we want to apply uh Qura. We set
this to true. We will apply Lura if we
set this to true. So uh it reads in the
model name and uh you can go through it.
It's a very uh easy and very simple uh
logic here. You just load the tokenizer.
Uh we set the padding token to be equal
to the EOS. Padding side has to be right
because in this case we are doing uh uh
model training. We used to make it left
whenever we are generating but here it's
right. And then if the configuration
mentions that we want to uh apply Q lura
we just apply it and uh yeah we load we
load in the model we give it the
quantization configuration and uh yeah
we use the u bf16
also if we decided to apply lura we just
create the configuration and we um yeah
call in the get pip model method. So uh
this way we have applied lura and
quantization. So basically what this is
doing is it takes in the configuration
which contains the model name. It's
going to download the model name from
this model from hugging face. It's going
to apply Laura and quantization. Maybe
one of them maybe not. You are not
interested. In this case we are applying
both and then it's going to return uh
the model and the tokenizer. So when you
run this it means you are uh done with
the entire model setup. So model setup
is actually very easy to achieve.
So now that you have set up your model
uh and previously you did all the
pre-processing steps including padding
on the fly. Now you are ready for the
actual training. So let's go back and uh
we will use the train model method uh
for training. Again it takes in the
configuration the model itself your
tokenizer and your tokenized training
and testing uh sorry training and
validation after uh sorry before
padding. Okay because this one is going
to perform the padding on the fly. So
the first thing here is we uh define our
collator and then uh we import the
training arguments uh object from
hugging face or the training arguments
class and uh you basically define
everything here. So hugging face makes
it very easy. Uh you define where you
want the model to be stored. Um how many
epochs do you want to run? How many
steps? So you either use epochs or
steps. Uh steps is batches basically. So
if you set it to 500 for example, it
means just do 500 batches and then stop.
Uh what's your batch size? So all of
these are very common. There's gradient
uh accumulation steps. Uh this one is um
how many batches you want to process
before you apply um the weight change or
before you actually uh yeah compute the
updates in the in the weights the model.
So for example, if your batch size uh is
two, so this means you are processing
two samples at a time. But your gradient
accumulation steps is four. It means I
have to wait for four batches before I
apply the first weight update. And if
each batch has two samples, this means
every eight samples uh I process and
then I uh apply the change. So it's it's
basically another way to um like modify
the effective batch size because
sometimes you may want to try larger
batch sizes but your uh GPU memory may
not afford that. So uh you use uh this
trick in order to do something like
this. Uh then you have the learning
rate. The scheduleuler uh scheduleuler
is just a way to change learning rate
make it maybe um higher or lower
depending on the type ofuler you are
using. So feel free to check them. Uh
personally I think it's a very uh useful
thing to do and not including it at all
may affect uh the results in a way that
you might not expect. And yeah, again
warm-up steps is uh something associated
with theuler. We choose in the type. So
here we are setting BF16 uh to true. And
then uh the optimizer uh usually we use
Adam because it's the um most widely
used. In this case it's another variant
of Adam that is optimized for
quantization. So we're using the most
optimal one for our setup. And then
these are uh for logging and saving. And
then max grad norm is basically uh you
normalize the gradients before you uh
apply the change. So um if you don't
include this you mean you will compute
your gradients. You just compute the
weight updates no matter how big they
are uh or how small they are. You just
apply them. But uh what this is doing is
it says just normalize the gradient to
make it uh equal to the length of one
before you do this. And usually this
makes your uh training more stable. Uh
if you don't understand this uh it's
fine. Don't worry about it. But usually
max rad norm is is set to uh one. So
this is the most commonly used value.
Okay. So now you defined all your uh
arguments. Keep in mind there are a lot
more things you can pass to this uh
class more than this. Uh but yeah these
are the ones we are u choosing. Feel
free to uh take a look at the
documentation maybe try other things.
And then you just uh import the trainer
object again from hugging face. You give
it the model, your arguments, your train
and validation and the collector and
then everything is going to be uh done
for you. You call trainer.train. Uh and
then we save after we're done. We save
the model and we uh save the line.
So [clears throat] now let's scroll down
and uh actually call this method. So
here we are calling the uh train model
that we just showed and you can see uh
training starts the loss starts
decreasing and keep in mind that while
this number seems relatively high so 1.3
is a high number for other tasks like
binary classification for example
however in this context in LLM uh like
language generation this number is
considered a decent number so u yeah
don't expect to see very low numbers
like uh 0.1 or 0.2 too because this
means your LLM is very very confident
about what it's saying. It might be
overfitting. It might be um so again it
depends on the context because I was
using uh LLMs for example in other
projects for generating things other
than language and uh in that case it
made sense that these numbers has to be
low because there was like a single
correct answer but in your case here
this is language generation there is no
single correct answer. Um so that's why
your LLM has not to be so confident
about what it's saying because there are
multiple good answers. So uh it makes
sense that the loss would be uh a little
bit higher than usual or little bit
higher than what you're used to. And
then once this is done uh we call the
push to hub method. We are defining it
above. You can take a look at it. Uh
it's very simple. And what this does is
it pushes both the model and the
adapters uh to hugging face. Most
probably you don't need to push the
model. I'm just doing it to show you
that you can't. Uh however in most cases
all you need to push is the adapters.
And when you want to load the model
back, you download the base model and
you download your adapters and then you
plug your adapters into the model and
then you have uh your fine-tuned model
back.
So after you run this, uh if I go to my
hugging face account, I can see I have
the Qura summarizer. This is the model
itself. So you can see the model file is
1.5 GB and I also have the Qura
summarizer adapters. These are only the
adapters. The file size is uh 7 MGB. So
um yeah um that's it for this video. We
showed how you can start uh the training
process, how you can do padding on the
fly and uh set up your model and uh yeah
um we push the adapters. In the next
video we will show how we can load the
model back and do the actual uh
evaluation. So we will run this model
over uh our validation set. We will
generate predictions and [clears throat]
then we will compute the root scores and
uh we will compare this fine-tuned model
with the baseline version. So that's it
for this uh video. I hope you found that
useful and I'll see you in the next one.